Peter singers book Animal Liberation
came out in the 1970s PETA came around
in 1980 so groups and advocates have
been at this for decades and yet the
percentage of people in the United
States who are vegetarian has basically
not changed at all so it really is time
for us to reconsider our message
reconsider our advocacy and do something
that has a chance of being different
that has a chance of breaking through to
the general public because we know just
by looking at the graphs just by looking
at the numbers that we have been
failures at this so far in veganism in
2017 I would say that the more political
you are the more explicitly and overtly
political you are in your approach to
veganism the more optimistic you are and
this is brought to my mind by recent
challenges to vegans I've seen by
reduced Aryans and recent responses of
veganism against the newly organized
voice of reduced arianism seem reduced
at arianism I think the name the word
almost began as a joke but this year
we've seen formal conferences of reduce
at Aryans and we've seen people
including X vegans or people who are
vegan but we were X vegan activists
saying that they're switching to a
reduced Tyrian approach there's one guy
who got 800,000 views on a video on
YouTube I can provide a link below he
has a website and some kind of
organization called one step for animals
everyone has met a vegan who has been
rude to them or who has been you know
outrageous or just angry or yelling at
them we are driving people away we are
driving people back to eating meat I
think he is vegan personally but he gave
up on vegan activism because he thinks
it's ineffective he thinks it's a failed
paradigm and he's instead now advocating
a form of reduce at Arianism what some
friends and I decided is we should take
a different approach rather than just
pushing veganism we should take the
opportunity that people have to take one
step that will have a profound impact on
the number of animals suffering now this
is an interesting challenge for vegans
to respond to and I think it's very
instructive to see how someone like your
friends
struggles to respond to the the
competitive answer offered by reduced
arianism the competitive solution to the
same set of problems reduced Syrians
will frequently offer arguments along
these lines they will claim that it is
better to have 10,000 people who are 50%
vegan or vegan who are reducing their
meat consumption by 50% or being a
favorite of them that that will have
more of an impact than having just one
thousand people who are a hundred
percent vegan who are perfectly
disciplined who are highly in their own
lifestyle habits consumption
what-have-you and of course if you're
just measuring the impact in aggregate
on the number of animals being
slaughtered the amount of water being
used or other resources being used of
course there's a simple mathematical
sense in which that's true
and I do think that other vegan leaders
like Gary France don't have trouble
addressing that and I do think that some
vegans are going to be seduced so to
speak to come over to the reduce Italian
side whether or not they themselves go
back to eating meat that what they
advocate what they preach and how they
how they conduct outreach how they reach
out to meat eaters they may start to
frame their engagement in their
discourse in terms of reduced Arianism
rather than asking for people to get
engaged with you know the core ethical
concept of veganism to adjust their own
lifestyles to reflect that so-called
moral baseline gary france aione it's a
favorite term so some of the questions
are about effectiveness some of the
questions are about the past failures of
veganism some of the questions get
framed in terms of the the psychological
perception of vegans themselves vegans
being perceived as a threat by
meat-eaters you know this video that had
over 800,000 views it certainly states
the problem as being that veganism
itself is somehow too challenging or too
offensive they show video clips of a
specific vegan activist group called DXE
direct action everywhere in contrast to
how supposedly nice and friendly reduce
adherence and as an agenda Haley this is
misleading a number of ways including
the fact that ultimately reduced Aryans
are still telling people that eating
meat is bad and evil and wrong they're
just proposing a different solution or a
different way to mitigate the damage
and evils of the industry they're just
not proposing veganism their proposed
proposing that you eat less meat rather
than than zero but actually the type of
confrontations involved will be be
similar it's interesting to note that
these two groups so one is called one
step for animals in the other equal
direct action everywhere have a playlist
for them quite a few videos commenting
to our attention everywhere one step for
animals fundamentally is based in a
sense of frustration of pessimism that
veganism is a movement is failed by or
is failing that it has been a failure
that decades and decades of animal
rights activism has sort of come to
nothing that only 2% of people are vegan
which is a very generous estimate by the
way I think in reality the fewer than 2%
of people vegan but in what a tiny tiny
minority of people are vegan and that
the movement is going nowhere
whereas there's this supposedly untapped
potential of reduce at arianism to
really change the world to really impact
to really mitigate how much meat people
are eating around 2% of people are true
vegetarians there have been a number of
studies the most recent by for analytics
that shows over 80% of people who go
vegetarian go back to eating animals and
almost half of the people surveyed on
this say that they go back because they
can't stand the pressure to maintain a
pure diet and so when we're pushing
people to eat the way we eat we are
driving people away we are driving
people back to eating meat but this guy
took on this direction where he's just
asking people to quit eating chicken not
beef not fish oddly where he's just
tackling the ethics of how chicken is
produced and asked people to stop eating
chicken and he's taking a reduced terian
approach rather than a Pro vegan
approach out of frustration and on the
other hand we can say that the group
he's contrasting himself to at least in
this one video where he's saying that
vegans have this negative and combative
and rude and insulting impact on people
he's contrasting himself to direct
action everywhere direct action
everywhere and their unique method of
protest and social engagement they call
disruption disruptive activism but they
use the term disruption that also
was entirely founded and defined in
terms of frustration with the mode of
vegan activism they have been engaged in
before that they thought wasn't worrying
specifically the founder Wayans young he
had been handing out cookies and
pamphlets and inviting people to come to
documentary film nights especially in
university campuses and after some
number of years of doing this he sat
down and did the math and he said this
is a huge amount of effort with very
little outcome and his frustration with
that led him in another direction so
they're both examples of how frustration
with what you recognize is not working
in vegan activism can lead you to ask
new questions find new answers take on
new directions and new and new methods
it is what it is in this case I think
both responses are wrong and the
challenge posed by reducing arianism
itself I think leads us to take on you
know new directions ask new questions
etc I think I'm fundamentally more
optimistic than any of these people and
I'm fundamentally more optimistic than
carry frenzy on a want to see him
wrestling with Rotarians because I
really believe in the agency of the
people involved I believe in the
political agency of small groups of
people getting organized if you want a
great example of that kind of somewhat
terrifying example you can look at the
history of how the United States of
America a small number of housewives
managed to make alcohol illegal this is
the era that's called prohibition if you
look at a full copy of the United States
Constitution
read the Constitution from beginning to
end this is not just a law this is a
constitutional amendment to make alcohol
illegal in the United States and it's
still in there it's still in the
Constitution and there's a later
amendment that revises it almost gets
rid of it there's still a few counties
in America well goes legal a small
number of opinionated highly organized
people with a highly unpopular opinion
and the vast majority of Americans did
not want alcohol to become illegal in
the United States but this minority of
people made it happen not just as a law
and not just as a government policy but
as constitutional amendment now in some
ways that's a positive example in some
ways that's a negative example but it is
remarkable it means very well document
for sure these were this is a time when
women are considered relatively
oppressed and voiceless but this is it
these were actually predominantly
women's groups that adjectives
for God organized and pressed for this
legal amendment that wasn't by a larger
disaster but they changed the law and
they they imposed their views and their
opinions on the majority that's supposed
to be a rare and unknown thing and you
know Western capitalist democracies but
it happens why just because they thought
it was the right thing to do
just cuz they thought that a moral
argument for temperance as they called
it not not drinking not drinking much
alcohol reduce it Arianism or drinking
alcohol at all now there are other more
moderate examples of more durable
impacts but I like to draw people's
attention the fact that a very very
small percentage of Americans ever cared
about seatbelts about making seatbelts
mandatory in cars there's a specific
political figure called Ralph Nader
who's also remembered for his
environmental advocacy and running for
president it states the Ralph Nader
originally became famous the United
States he made his name by going around
and lobbying on this issue that every
car should have seatbelts at the time
they didn't what percentage of Americans
do you think really cared about passing
laws to force car companies to FC votes
do you think it was 1% do you think it
was 2% you think was 5% now passively
maybe 50% of Americans could recognize
that yeah using seatbelts would be a
good thing to do no harm'
leakes does some good etc right well
there's a further element here of
coercion having laws that force people
to use seatbelts as individuals not just
the automotive companies of people to
wear seatbelts and that threatened you
with a fine
with a fine or a day in jail or
something if you're riding around
without Seefeld on so there are elements
of personal inconvenience their elements
of coercion and what-have-you not just
inconvenience for the the automotive
company and the United States of America
like many Western democracies went
through a kind of strange process of
courting public opinion and of small
lobby groups courting government of
public influence and private private
interests being balanced and in the end
most Western democracies have made
seatbelts a universal requirement of
cars and have made the mandatory for
drivers if not drivers and passengers to
be wearing seatbelts at all times
now again my fundamental point is not
that
99% of people were opposed to seatbelts
and only 1% of people wanted them and
cared it's not the case at all
probably less than 1% of people really
cared about that issue passionately
either which way the vast majority
people were indifferent to it and that's
the situation veganism is in it's not
the case that the vast majority of meat
eaters eat and revile veganism or hate
our ecological arguments hate our health
based arguments or hate the animal
rights arguments the vast majority of
people are not anti vegan they are just
absolutely fundamentally indifferent in
the same way that they would be
indifferent to seatbelts and probably
they shrug their shoulders and say oh
you're gonna do something good for the
environment ok
oh you're gonna do something good for
human health ok oh you're gonna do
something good for animal rights or for
animals and in some sense this is really
the contest and the situation we're in
and why I regard reduced arianism so
differently the reduced staring argument
again 10,000 people who are 50% vegan
are gonna have more of an impact in the
reduced Aryans claim than just 100
people who are 100% vegan my view is the
exact opposite because what we don't
need are a thousand people who are
wishy-washy or indifferent what we need
are small groups of people a hundred
people here a hundred people there who
are highly organized highly able to
lobby government highly able to
influence public policy decisions 100
people who are all 100% vegan if they
show up at the school board any school
board a hundred people have a big impact
in the school work school boards in
Canada will respond to a few dozen
people who are members of a small ethnic
minority a small religious minority you
have a group like the Sikhs a group of
the Yazidi you have you know various
small religious groups in some suburb of
Toronto and they'll show up and they
will Lobby the school board and say look
these are our concerns but what is or
isn't in the curriculum how they are
aren't represented or something or about
the problems their own students are
having due to religious observances or
religious holidays whatever it is you
would be surprised a few dozen people
can influence a local school board if
you have 100
who are really consistently and in a way
that's logical and moral and respectable
and so on showing up the school board
and saying look what you're teaching
about milk this is scientifically false
what you're teaching about eggs about
eating chicken eggs this is
scientifically false and this is based
on propaganda produced by these
industries and if you're gonna adopt
this then you know why shouldn't we wash
it and we teach the cigarettes are
healthy you know you think 100 people
100 percent vegan can't have an impact
on a school board on a local mayor level
government we had an example of that
Berkeley California of Berkeley making
fir illegal to buy and sell fur but not
leather interestingly so you know a
local city government taking up that
ordinance for ethical grounds because of
the number of vegans who now live in
Berkeley California which includes
direct action everywhere by the way I
think Wayne Siong himself is now living
in Berkeley California now again some
vegans are against that kind of Singler
should cause lobbying and so on but with
all those digression aside fundamentally
I'm reminded of my own optimism about
veganism as a movement my optimism for
the future by these conflicts between
vegans and reduced Aryans these
questions about effective activism that
go on within the movement to some extent
are stealing people away from the
movement to take on new and different
texts and approaches because I believe
that small groups of people can make a
big difference can make a big impact but
those small groups of people can't be
50% vegan or 50% reduce at arian they
kind of sort of care some of the time
what you need are groups of people who
are highly committed highly disciplined
in terms of the time they're willing to
put in whether that's at City Hall or at
the school board or maybe it's a
conservation based group that involves a
particular River or a particular forest
you know etc all those things take a lot
of time and energy and I can't imagine
those being built on people who have a
wishy-washy commitment to veganism where
they know it's wrong and they know it's
bad but they're still willing to buy a
leather couch or they're still willing
to eat meat a couple of times a year
that future and that kind of
organization
absolutely has to be based on a type of
commitment above and beyond merely
maintaining a 100% vegan diet uh so
that's what I have to say I think the
more overtly political you are in
veganism in 2017 the more optimistic
you're gonna be because you won't feel
that were a powerless minority of 1%
adrift in the world or a powerless
minority of 2 percent whatever a
statistic you want to use
you won't view the struggle of veganism
as a hopeless struggle to try to get
from 1 percent to 100 percent that's not
my struggle and I don't see the struggle
of veganism in terms of struggle to get
you know billions of animals being
killed down to half as many billions of
animals being Till killed I don't see it
in that way I see it as a much more
immediately attainable goal of
organizing those groups of 10 people
here and a hundred people there that can
have a big impact on specific issues
whether it's a specific school board a
specific River a specific slaughterhouse
a specific racetrack whatever that issue
to tackle might be that small numbers of
people with high levels of commitment
high levels of self-discipline hopefully
high levels of education can really have
an impact in this world especially when
they have a cause that appeals to
people's ethical sense of right and
wrong we've got a lot more going for us
then the then the seat belt movement
ever did really we do this is a lot more
weight is a lot more meaning in people's
lives we have a lot more going for us
than the temperance movement never did
that ended up with a disastrous example
of the United States making alcohol
illegal but throughout history small
minorities highly organized can make a
big impact and we can too